---
# the default layout is 'page'
icon: fas fa-info-circle
order: 1
---

**BYLAWS OF THE**

**NEW CASTLE CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH  
as amended May 15, 2022**

**ARTICLE I: NAME**

1.  This corporation shall be known as The New Castle Congregational
    Church (United Church of Christ), Incorporated of New Castle, New
    Hampshire.
2.  The words "this Church," whenever used in these Bylaws, shall be
    understood to refer to this corporation.
3.  The word \"Member, or Members and Membership" shall be understood to
    refer to the activities of becoming, participating, and acting
    together at this Church.

**ARTICLE II: POLITY**

1.  This Church accepts Jesus Christ as its Head and seeks guidance in
    faith and discipline from Holy Scriptures, interpreted by the Holy
    Spirit through reason, faith and conscience.
2.  This Church shall be an independent body amenable to no other
    ecclesiastical authority, having within itself all necessary powers
    of government and discipline.
3.  The government of the Church is vested in its members who shall
    exercise control of all its affairs. It accepts the obligations of
    mutual counsel and cooperation involved in the free fellowship of
    the United Church of Christ, and pledges itself to share their
    common aims and work.

<a name="ARTICLEIII"></a>
**ARTICLE III: COVENANT**

The purpose of this Church and the basis of its fellowship are stated in
the covenant:

Knowing our unworthiness and dependence on God, we give ourselves to God
in an everlasting promise never to be forgotten.

Accepting the Good News of Jesus Christ, we covenant with God and with
one another to walk together in His ways as He reveals Himself to us. We
promise to unite in maintaining public worship of God among us: to
perform the duties of Christian love toward each other; to raise our
children in the ways of God; to encourage the spirit of fellowship; to
spread the word of the Gospel to others; and to seek in every way to
relate the Gospel to the way of life.

**ARTICLE IV: MISSION**

**The New Castle Congregational Church strives to bring God's Love, as
seen in the life of Jesus Christ, to the community and the world through
worship, music, fellowship, outreach, and our lives. We do this by **

-  Maintaining public worship of God and loving one another, 

-  Fostering a culture of caring that celebrates diversity and promotes
  > social justice, 

-  Sharing a ministry of music with our community, 

-  Being good stewards of this historic center of our community, 

-  Serving the needy of the world. 

**ARTICLE V: MEMBERSHIP**

1\. **Qualifications:**

a.  All who confess Jesus Christ to be their guide and teacher and who
    > promise to serve Him, will be welcome to the fellowship of this
    > Church, either on confession or reaffirmation of their faith, or
    > on presentation of acceptable letters from other Churches.

b.  Candidates for membership shall be at least 12 years of age.

2\. **Admission:**

a.  Candidates for admission to membership shall meet with the Pastor
    > and Board of Deacons representatives.

b.  When recommended by the Board of Deacons, they may be received into
    membership at any service of the Church.

3\. **Duties:**

> Members are expected to be faithful in all the duties essential to the
> Christian life, and also to attend regularly the services of this
> Church, to give regularly for the support of this Church and its
> mission and to share in its organized work.

> A member not contributing toward the support of the Church or not
> worshiping with this Church for two years may, by review of the Board
> of Deacons, be considered for inactive member status.

4**. Membership Categories:**

a.  Regular Member - Any member, who after joining, attends this Church;
    > or supports the Church financially; or shares in its organized
    > activities; whether resident or non-resident, shall be a regular
    > member.

b.  Associate Member - A person who wishes to participate in the life of
    > this Church while maintaining membership in another Church may be
    > received as an Associate Member by the same process as regular
    > Members are received. Associate Members shall have all the rights
    > and duties of regular members.

c.  Non-Member - A person who wishes to join in the life of this Church
    > without joining is welcome to participate as a non-member.
    > Non-members may serve on committees but are precluded from
    > becoming an officer, deacon, or trustee of the Church.

d.  Inactive Member - Any member who for a period of two years does not
    > attend this Church; and does not assist in any of the Church
    > activities; and according to the records of the Collector of the
    > Church, does not support the Church financially may, upon a
    > majority vote of the Board of Deacons, be placed on the inactive
    > list. Inactive members will not be included in the annual
    > membership count that is reported to the Conference Office (UCC).

5\. **Transfer, Termination and Reinstatement:**

a.  Any regular member in good standing wishing to transfer his or her
    > membership to another Church shall make a request in writing
    > stating the Church with which he or she desires to unite, which
    > request shall be acted upon by the Board of Deacons.

b.  A member, upon written request to the Clerk, may have his/her
    membership terminated and his name removed from the Church roll. A
    member's name will be removed from the Church roll upon death.

c.  After being on the inactive list for a period of two years, an
    > inactive member may have his/her name removed from the Church
    > roll.

d.  In extraordinary circumstances, the Board of Deacons may recommend
    > to a Special or Annual Meeting of the Church that a membership be
    > terminated. A majority vote at a Special or Annual Meeting is
    > required to enforce the recommendation.

e.  Any former member who shows renewed interest in the Church and
    > desires to be reinstated as an active member may be so upon
    > recommendation of the Pastor and a majority vote of the Board of
    > Deacons.

<a name="ARTICLEVI"></a>
**ARTICLE VI: OFFICERS**

1\. **Pastor:**

> a\. Call of the Pastor:

> \(1\) The Pastor shall be called for an indefinite time by a
> two-thirds vote at a Church meeting called for that purpose.

(2) The Pastor will be installed by the Rockingham Association, New
    > Hampshire Conference, United Church of Christ.

(3) The Pastor\'s term of service may be brought to an end either at the
    > initiative of the minister or by a two-thirds vote of the Church
    > Members. A 90-day notice of termination shall be provided by
    > either party.

(4) In the case of a loss in ministerial standing with the Rockingham
    > Association on the part of the Pastor, the Church will meet within
    > 30 days to determine its future relationship with the Pastor.

> b\. Responsibilities

(1) The Pastor shall have charge of the spiritual welfare of the Church
    > with the assistance of the Board of Deacons,

(2) The Pastor shall seek to enlist members,

(3) Preach the Good News,

(4) Administer the Sacraments,

(5) Have under his*/*her care all services of public worship, and

(6) Administer the activities of the Church in cooperation with the
    > various boards and committees.

(7) She/He shall record all baptisms, marriages, and deaths

(8) She/He shall keep a list of members and, once a year, he/she shall
    > compare this with the list kept by the Clerk and the Assistant
    > Clerk, revising the list in conjunction with them.

(9) He/She shall be ex officio an advisory member of all boards and
    > committees.

**2. Moderator: **

a.  The Moderator shall be elected to conduct the business meetings of
    > the Church and the meetings of the Church Council.

b.  The Moderator must be either a Regular or Associate Member to be
    > elected.

c.  The Moderator will be elected to serve a term of one year. There are
    > no term limits.

d.   The Moderator is a member, ex-officio, of the Nominating Committee.

**3. Vice Moderator: **

a.  The Vice-Moderator shall preside at business meetings of the Church
    > and the meetings of the Church Council in the absence of the
    > Moderator.

b.  The Vice-Moderator must be either a Regular or Associate Member to
    be elected.

c.  The Vice-Moderator will be elected to serve a term of one year.
    > There are no term limits.

**4. Clerk:**

a.  The Clerk shall keep a complete record of the transactions at all
    > business meetings of the Church and meetings of the Church
    > Council. Minutes of these meetings shall be posted within thirty
    > days and then presented for approval at the next meeting.

b.  The Clerk shall give legal notice of all meetings where such notice
    > is necessary as indicated in these Bylaws.

c.  The Clerk shall notify all officers, members of committees and
    > delegates of their election or appointment.

d.  The Clerk is responsible for keeping a copy of the Church bylaws
    > that is up to date at all times, making copies available to the
    > Pastor, Moderator, chairs of all boards and committees, and to
    > other members as requested.

e.  The Clerk is responsible for assembling the Annual Report to be
    > presented at the Annual Meeting.

f.  The Clerk must be either a Regular or Associate Member to be
    elected.

g.  The Clerk will be elected to serve a term of one year. There are no
    term limits.
    
<a name="AssistantClerk"></a>
**5. Assistant Clerk:**

a.  The Assistant Clerk shall keep a register of the names of the
    > members of the Church, with dates of their admissions and transfer
    > or death, together with a record of baptisms and marriages.

b.  The Assistant Clerk shall issue letters of transfer certificates of
    > standing.

c.  The Assistant Clerk shall keep track of the terms of office of all
    > those elected to offices, boards and committees.

d.  The Assistant Clerk will assist in the clerical work of the Church,
    > as directed by the Clerk.

e.  The Assistant Clerk must be either a Regular or Associate Member to
    > be elected.

f.  The Assistant Clerk will be elected to serve a term of one year.
    > There are no term limits.

**6. Treasurer:**

a.  The Treasurer serves as the financial officer of the Church.

b.  The Treasurer performs or oversees all the bookkeeping functions for
    > the Church.

c.  The Treasurer is responsible for payment of all bills, invoices and
    > charges of the Church. The Treasurer prepares monthly financial
    > reports for the Board of Trustees.

d.  The Treasurer files all required federal, state and local tax forms.

e.  The Treasurer assists the Trustees in the preparation of the annual
    > budget.

f.  The Treasurer is an ex officio member (without vote) of the Board of
    > Trustees.

g.  The Treasurer is a member of the Investment Committee.

h.  The Treasurer must be either a Regular or Associate Member to be
    > elected. h. The Treasurer will be elected to serve a term of one
    > year. There are no term limits.

**7. Assistant Treasurer:**

a.  The Assistant Treasurer shall assist the Treasurer as may be
    > mutually agreed, with the approval of the Trustees.

b.  The Assistant Treasurer must be either a Regular or Associate Member
    > to be elected.

c.  The Assistant Treasurer\'s term of office is for one year, without
    > term limits.

**8. Collector/Financial Secretary: **

a.  The Collector shall be elected to office. The Collector shall have
    > been previously nominated by the Treasurer and be approved by the
    > Trustees.

b.  The Collector oversees the counting of all offerings, including
    > those designated for special purposes.

c.  The Collector oversees depositing of all receipts.

d.  The Collector trains those involved in the offering counting
    > process.

e.  The Collector keeps track of and oversees the recording of all
    > contributions to the individual\'s contribution/pledge record.

f.  The Collector provides periodic statements to contributors as
    > directed by the Stewardship Committee.

g.  The Collector provides periodic updates to the Stewardship
    > Committee.

h.  The Collector must be either a Regular or Associate Member to be
    > elected.

i.  The Collector\'s term of office is for one year, without term
    > limits.

**9. Auditors:**

a.  There shall be two Auditors who shall carefully examine the accounts
    > of the Church at the end of each fiscal year.

b.  The Auditors shall submit a written report to the Board of Trustees
    for inclusion in the Annual Report.

<!-- -->

c.  There is no Church membership requirement for Auditors.

d.  Auditors will be elected to serve a term of two years, with only one
    > to be elected each year. There are no term limits.

**10. Historian:**

a.  The Historian preserves the documentary and material history of the
    > Church and its buildings.

b.  The Historian shall aid the Clerk in the preservation of the records
    > of the Church and its activities.

c.  There is no Church membership requirement for Historian.

d.  The Historian is elected for a term of three years. There are no
    term limits.

**11. Delegates: **

a.  There shall be two Delegates who represent the Church to the
    Rockingham Association and the New Hampshire Conference, United
    Church of Christ.

b.  The Delegates should attend at least one meeting yearly of both the
    > Rockingham Association and the New Hampshire Conference.

c.  The Delegates shall promote the attendance and participation of
    other Church members in the events of the Rockingham Association and
    the New Hampshire Council.

d.  Delegates must be either a Regular or Associate Members to be
    elected.

e.  Delegates are elected for a term of one year, without term limits.

**12. Election: **

All officers, the Pastor excepted, shall be elected by a majority vote
taken at the Annual Meeting.

<a name="ARTICLEVII"></a>
**ARTICLE VII: BOARDS**

> **1. Board of Deacons**:

The Board of Deacons with the Pastor shall direct the ministry of the
Church and promote the spiritual life of the Church through its worship,
faith, and outreach.

a\. Responsibilities.

(1) The Board of Deacons shall administer the preparation and serving of
    > Communion, baptisms, and the admission of new members.

(2) The Board of Deacons shall assist in caring for the sick and
    > sorrowing, the needy, and the stranger in our community.

(3) The Board of Deacons will call upon new members and introduce
    > interested people into the life of the Church.

(4) The Board of Deacons shall have sole administration of the Deacons'
    > Fund to assist in meeting the needs of the less fortunate in our
    > community.

(5) The Board of Deacons shall receive, examine with the Pastor, and
    > make recommendations on applications for admission to Church
    > membership before the names are submitted to the Church by the
    > Pastor and shall meet with the applicants prior to admission.

(6) The Board of Deacons shall provide for the supply of the pulpit in
    > case of a vacancy and in the absence of the Pastor.

(7) The Board of Deacons will arrange to have ushers for all services.

(8) The Board of Deacons will appoint the members of the Outreach and
    > Missions Committees.

(9) The Board of Deacons shall also coordinate with the Music Committee,
    > the Flower Committee, and the Christian Education Committee in the
    > performance of their responsibilities.

b\. Composition*.*

(1) The Board of Deacons shall consist of no fewer than six members.

(2) The Board may appoint an alternate member if needed, subject to the
    > requirement that the alternate has not served on the Board as a
    > full member during the past year, and with the approval of the
    > Council. Such Alternate will vote in the case of absence of one of
    > the Board. The term will be limited to the balance of the year of
    > appointment.

> (3). A Deacon must be either a Regular or Associate Member to be
> elected.

> \(4\) Deacons will be elected to serve a term of three years with one
> third of the membership to be elected annually. After serving two full
> terms, a Deacon shall be ineligible for re-election for one full year.

<a name="TRUSTEES"></a>
**2. Board of Trustees: **

The Board of Trustees shall be responsible for the financial affairs and
properties of the Church.

> a\. Responsibilities.

> \(1\) Based on requests submitted by the boards, committees, and
> employees, the Board of Trustees shall prepare a budget for the
> ensuing fiscal year, with the assistance of the Treasurer, and shall
> present the budget to the Church membership for approval.

> \(2\) The Board of Trustees shall have full charge and custody of all
> legacies and gifts to the Church, consistent with the wishes of the
> donors.

> \(3\) Consistent with the direction of the congregation, the Trustees
> have authority to enter into contracts on behalf of the Church.

> \(4\) The Board of Trustees shall authorize and direct the Treasurer
> as to the payments of moneys under their control, including funds in
> the endowment of the Church.

(a) The Trustees shall establish an amount annually which shall be
    > designated from the endowment funds of the Church for the
    > operations of the Church, the timing of which shall be subject to
    > the discretion of the Trustees and communications with the
    > Chairperson of the Investment Committee. The Trustees may elect
    > not to receive distributions from the endowment fund based on the
    > amount of cash in the Church operating fund.

(b) The Trustees shall be authorized to expend Church funds, including
    > from the endowment for any emergency purpose, however, any other
    > non-budgeted amount in excess of \$25,000 must be approved by and
    > at the direction of the Church membership at a Special or Annual
    > Meeting of the Church.

> \(5\) The Board of Trustees will appoint members to an Investment
> Committee consisting of no fewer than 5 members, including the
> Treasurer and a member of the Board of Trustees.

(a) Such members shall serve at the will of the Trustees.

(b) With input from the Investment Committee, the Board of Trustees
    > shall be responsible for overall asset allocation and investment
    > of funds in the Church\'s endowment funds.

> \(c\) The Committee is also responsible for the preparation and
> submission of an investment policy to the Board of Trustees.

(6) The Board of Trustees shall appoint members to a Building Committee.
    > Such members shall serve at the will of the Trustees. With input
    > from the Building Committee, the Trustees shall plan for capital
    > outlays needed for the preservation and maintenance of the
    > properties of the Church, preferably over a period of years.

(7) The Board of Trustees shall appoint members to a Landscape
    > Committee. Such members shall serve at the will of the Trustees.
    > With input from the Landscape Committee, the Board of Trustees
    > shall plan for the preservation and maintenance of the gardens and
    > lawns of the Church.

(8) The Board of Trustees shall keep all deeds, property certificates
    > and other documents pertaining to physical plant and financial
    > structure in a secure fashion on Church property.

(9) The Board of Trustees has responsibility for approving or
    disapproving the use of Church facilities by non-Church groups,
    based on established criteria, which have been approved at a Special
    or Annual Meeting, and is attached to these bylaws.

(10) The Board of Trustees shall coordinate with the Treasurer, the
     > Stewardship Committee, the Investment Committee and the Building
     > Committee and the Landscape Committee in the performance of their
     > responsibilities.

b\. Composition*.*

> \(1\) Board of Trustees shall consist of five members. The clerk and
> treasurer may attend Trustee meetings with a non-voting, ex officio
> status.

> \(2\) The Board may appoint an Alternate member if needed, with the
> approval of the Membership.

(a) The proposed Alternate shall not have served on the Board of
    > Trustees as a full member for the past year.

(b) The Alternate will vote in the case of absence of one of the
    > Trustees.

(c) The term of the Alternate will be limited to the balance of the year
    > of appointment.

> \(3\) A majority of the Board of Trustees shall constitute a quorum
> for the transaction of business.

c\. Trustees must be either Regular or Associate Members to be elected.

d\. Trustees will be elected to serve a staggered term of three years
with one or two of the board to be elected annually. After serving two
full terms, a Trustee shall be ineligible for re-election for one full
year.

e\. Trustees may attend a meeting by telephonic or other equipment by
means of which all persons participating in the meeting can communicate
with each other.

f\. Any action required by law to be taken at a meeting of Trustees, or
any action that may be taken at a meeting of Trustees, may be taken
without a meeting if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so
taken, shall be signed by all of the Trustees

**ARTICLE VIII: COMMITTEES**

1\. **Stewardship Committee**:

> a\. Responsibilities.

> \(1\) The Stewardship Committee will work with the Treasurer or
> Assistant Treasurer to secure and collect pledges for support of the
> Church and benevolences;

> (2)The Stewardship Committee shall conduct the Annual Church Canvass;
> the results of the canvass shall be reported to the Board of Trustees
> one month before the Annual Budget Meeting.

(3) The Stewardship Committee shall assist the Treasurer or Assistant
    > Treasurer in securing payment of any unpaid pledges.

(4) The Stewardship Committee shall make a written report to the Annual
    > Meeting.

> b\. Composition: There shall be a Stewardship Committee with not less
> than three Members, one third of the number of members elected for
> three years at the Annual Meeting.

**2. Music Committee:**

> a\. Responsibilities:

(1) The Music Committee shall be responsible for hiring all employees
    > involved in the music program (e.g. Director of Music, organist,
    > etc.) in coordination with the Board of Trustees.

(2) Any proposals which relate to the music program of the Church must
    > be presented to the Music committee for their approval.

(3) The Music Committee shall make a written report to the Annual
    > Meeting.

> b\. Composition:

(1) There shall be a Music Committee of no fewer than five members.

(2) One Music Committee member shall be from the membership of the Board
    > of Deacons, one from the Board of Trustees, and not less than
    > three from the congregation. The members from the Boards of
    > Deacons and Trustees shall be selected by the respective boards.

(3) One third of the Music Committee shall be elected annually for a
    > term of three years.

**3. Flower Committee**:

> a\. Responsibilities:

(1) The Flower Committee shall provide for flowers for all worship
    > services and send flowers to the bereaved or sick.

(2) The Flower Committee shall make a written report to the Annual
    > Meeting.

> b\. Composition: There shall be a Flower Committee of no fewer than
> three members, one third of the members of the Committee shall be
> elected annually for a term of three years.

> **4. Christian Education Committee**:

> a\. Responsibilities:

(1) The Committee shall supervise and direct the educational work of the
    > Church, the Church School, and the youth groups.

(2) The Committee shall appoint a Church School Superintendent and shall
    > have charge of the Church School with power to appoint and remove
    > teachers and school officers.

<!-- -->

(3) The Committee shall inaugurate and maintain other religious and
    > educational activities. It shall determine the expenditure of
    > Church School Funds, with the advice of the school staff and
    > subject to the direction of the Church.

(4) The Committee shall make a written report to the Annual Meeting.

> b\. Composition: There shall be a Christian Education Committee of not
> less than four members, elected to staggered terms of three years.

**5. Nominating Committee**:

a.  Responsibilities: The Nominating Committee shall place in nomination
    > at least one name for each office to be filled at the Annual
    > Meeting. In the case where an office is vacant before the end of
    > the elected term, after the Council has appointed a replacement to
    > complete the year, the Nominating Committee will nominate a
    > candidate to complete any unexpired term.

b.  Composition:

<!-- -->

(1) The Nominating Committee shall consist of five Church members, three
    > being nominated by the Nominating Committee and elected at the
    > Annual Meeting. The Boards of Trustees and Deacons will name a
    > representative from their boards each year who is not already an
    > elected member. The two-year terms will be staggered, with two
    > nominated on even-numbered years and one on odd-numbered years.

(2) No member may serve for more than one complete two-year term without
    > a year\'s break.

(3) The Pastor and Moderator serve on the Nominating Committee as
    > ex-officio members.

**6. Missions Committee:**

> a\. Responsibilities:

(1) The Missions Committee shall make recommendations regarding the
    > expenditure of funds budgeted by the congregation specifically for
    > missions.

(2) The Missions Committee may make special appeals to the congregation
    > for the expenditure of additional funds for other worthwhile
    > causes. Such special appeals may include requests for donations.

(3) The Missions Committee shall present its recommendations to an
    > either an Annual or Special Meeting of the Church.

> b\. Composition: The Missions Committee shall consist of no fewer than
> three members, appointed by the Board of Deacons. One member of the
> Missions Committee shall be a Deacon.

**7. Outreach Committee:**

a. Responsibilities:

> (1) The Outreach Committee shall promote activities that engage
> members and non-members in the life of the Church.

> \(2\) Such activities include, but are not limited to, Men's Coffee,
> Interfaith Dialog, Community Pot Luck suppers, Christmas tree lighting
> and carol singing. We expect that these activities will change over
> time.

> \(3\) The purpose is to provide opportunities for people to share time
> and experiences with others in settings outside of regular Sunday
> worship services.

> b. Composition: The Outreach Committee shall consist of no fewer than
> three members, appointed by the Board of Deacons. One member of the
> Outreach Committee shall be a Deacon.

**8. Investment Committee:**

> a\. Responsibilities:

(1) The Investment Committee shall advise the Trustees on the overall
    > asset allocation and investment of funds.

(2) The Investment Committee shall meet regularly, at least twice
    > annually and shall provide the Trustees with investment status
    > updates regarding allocation and investment activity.

> b\. Composition: The Board of Trustees shall appoint an Investment
> Committee, consisting of no fewer than 5 members, including the
> Treasurer and a member of the Board of Trustees. Such members serve at
> the will of the Trustees.

**9. Building Committee:**

a.  Responsibilities:

> The Building Committee shall make long term and short term
> recommendations to the Board of Trustees concerning the maintenance of
> the Church's buildings and equipment.

a.  Composition: There will be a Building Committee appointed by the
    Board of Trustees

**10. Landscape Committee:**

a.  Responsibilities:

> The Landscape Committee shall make recommendations to the Board of
> Trustees for best managing the appearance of Church\'s grounds.

a.  Composition: There will be a Landscape Committee of no fewer than
    two members appointed by the Board of Trustees.

**11. Pastoral Relations Committee:**

a.  Responsibilities:

> The PRC serves to support the Pastor through a variety of informal and
> formal means. Confidentiality, acceptance and trust are the
> foundations of the Committee membership and role. The Committee does
> not report to anyone other than itself and is not required to submit
> annual reports, except to acknowledge that regular meetings are held
> and members names.

> The PRC provides a regular channel of communication and feedback with
> the Pastor to cultivate an open, affirmative, and creative
> relationship between the Pastor and congregation, enabling the church
> to fulfill its mission effectively.

> The PRC advocates for just and fair compensation for the Pastor
> through the correct channels.

> The PRC encourages regular assessment of ministry of both Pastor and
> congregation.

> The PRC serves to be present in conflict in such a way that it is
> productive, not divisive.

a.  ** **Composition: The Pastoral Relations Committee shall consist of
    > the Pastor and 3 to 5 regular or associate members, at least one
    > of which shall be a Deacon. The members shall be selected by
    > agreement with the Chair of the Trustees, the Pastor, and the
    > Chair of the Deacons.

a.  Terms: Members will serve a 3-year term, in a staggered manner.
    > After serving two full terms, a member shall be ineligible to
    > serve again for one full year.  

> After one year off, any member may serve additional terms.  The
> committee shall meet at least 4 times per year and more often as
> needed.

**Church Council:**

> a\. Responsibilities:

1)  The Church Council meets at least quarterly, primarily to share
    > information among the various officers, boards, and committees of
    > the Church.

2)  The Council shall fill in any vacancy occurring during the year
    > which is not  
    > otherwise provided for.

> b\. Composition:

1)  The Church Council shall consist of the Moderator, the Clerk,
    > Assistant Clerk, Treasurer, Assistant Treasurer(s), and the Chair
    > of all Boards, Committees, and Church Organizations and/or someone
    > to represent a chair of a board.

1)  Seven members shall constitute a quorum.

1)  Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Moderator.

1)  Members of the Church are invited to attend Church Council meetings
    > but will have no vote.

> **12**. **Other Committees: **Other committees may be established by
> the congregation or the Council as need shall dictate.

**ARTICLE IX: OFFERINGS**

1\. The support of this Church and its work is derived from:

a.  voluntary contributions as pledges, open plate collection,
    donations, bequests, etc.;
b.  Investment income,
c.  Rental income, and
d.  Capital campaigns approved by the Church.

2\. An annual Church canvass will be held in November to solicit
pledges.

3\. A special offering shall be taken at each Communion service to
benefit the Deacons\' Fund which aids those who are in need of help.

**ARTICLE X: MEETINGS FOR WORSHIP**

1.  Meetings for public worship shall be held on Sundays and at such
    other times as may be approved by the Board of Deacons.

1.  The Sacrament of Communion will be offered and served every month on
    the first Sunday, unless otherwise provided by the Board of Deacons.

1.  The Sacrament of Baptism shall be celebrated on such days as
    designated by the Pastor.

1.  Any regularly called service of worship shall constitute a meeting
    of the Church for purposes of election of delegates to Church
    Councils, Conferences, Associations and new members to the Church,
    at which meetings the Pastor shall preside.

**ARTICLE XI: BUSINESS MEETINGS**

1\. Annual Meeting: The Annual Meeting of the Church shall be held
between April 20 and May 20, the date to be set by the Board of
Trustees.

a.  At this meeting there shall be presented the yearly reports of the
    > officers and organizations of the Church.

b.  Officers shall be elected at this time and any other business that
    > shall be legally brought before the meeting may be transacted.

2\. Special Meetings: Special meetings of the Church shall be called by
the Clerk at the request of the Moderator or at the written request of
five members of the Church. The nature of the business to be transacted
shall be stated in the notice of the meeting, i.e., the call.

3\. Notices: Notices of the Annual, Council, Deacons, Trustees and
Special Meetings shall be printed on a calendar accessible to the
congregation, announced from the pulpit the preceding two Sundays, and
sent to the resident membership by e-mail (if available) at least one
week prior to the date of the meeting.

4\. Quorum:

a.  A quorum at Annual and special meetings of the members shall consist
    > of the lesser of twenty regular or associate members or half of
    > all regular or associate members qualified to vote.

b.  A majority vote shall be decisive except as otherwise indicated in
    > these Bylaws.

5\. Official Year:

a.  The official year of the Church shall begin on the date of the
    > Annual Meeting and all officers, boards and committees elected at
    > the Annual Meeting shall assume their duties immediately and shall
    > continue in office until their successors are elected or
    > appointed.

b.  The fiscal year of the Church shall correspond to the calendar year.
    > A special Budget Meeting shall be held early in the year to
    > approve the budget for that year.

6\. Reports: All officers, boards, committees, and other organizations
shall present written reports at the Annual Meeting and at such other
times as they are requested by the Church.

7\. Order of Business for Annual Meeting:

a.  Opening of the meeting with prayer

b.  Approval of the minutes of the last annual meeting and any Special
    > Meetings that occurred in the previous year.

c.  Report of officers, boards, committees, and other organizations.

d.  Report of the Pastor

e.  Any other business

f.  Report of the Nominating Committee and election of officers,
    > committees and a Nominating Committee.

g.  Adjournment

**ARTICLE XII: CHURCH ORGANIZATIONS**

Organizations within the Church shall be free to develop their own
programs and plans so long as they are consistent with the aims and
welfare of the Church, to which they shall ultimately be responsible.

1.  The Church recognizes both the Gazebo Committee and the New Castle
    > Congregational Church Guild ("NCCCG") as Church organizations.

1.  Church organizations will submit an annual report and a financial
    > report to be incorporated with the Church's Annual Report.

1.  Upon the dissolution of any such organization, or upon its failure
    > to hold a meeting in any calendar year, all its funds and property
    > shall be transferred to the Church.

**ARTICLE XIII: USE OF NEW CASTLE CONGREGATIONAL CHURCH PROPERTY**

1.  No Church member, non-member, or guest shall be allowed to use any
    of the Church property, as defined in 2. below, to advertise or
    solicit personal or business projects without prior approval of the
    Board of Trustees.
2.  The Church property, for purposes of this Article, includes the
    Church, the Parish Hall, the Gazebo and the Church grounds. They are
    part of the Tax Exempt Property of the Church and may only be used
    for tax-exempt purposes, either by the Church or by other non-profit
    institutions for meetings, fund raising, or community purposes.

**ARTICLE XIV: AMENDMENTS**

1.  These Bylaws may be amended by a two-thirds vote of members present
    and voting at an Annual Meeting or special meeting of the Church,
    provided the proposed amendments have been previously submitted in
    writing or sent to the membership in the call to the meeting.
2.  For a valid vote, the proposed amendments shall have been provided
    in writing to the congregation at least two weeks prior to the
    meeting.
